Let's start with exercise number one and hook up a button,
this button here to toggle the displaying of the two paragraphs. This should be rather to be straightforward,
I'm going to set up my data property here and I will create a new property, choose any name you want,
I'll name it isShown and I'll initially set it to true. Next
I will add v-if to this first paragraph and set it equal to isShown, on the second paragraph,
I'll set up v-else and that is only one way of doing it,
you could also say v-if not isShown, that would be the same
but let's go with v-else here and on the button,
well I will set up a click listener with the at syntax here and I will simply switch isShown to what it
currently not is,
so I will reverse it from true to false and vice versa.
If I now hit control enter and hit this button,
you see I can toggle between the two paragraphs, exactly what I wanted.
The exercise also says to solve this with v-show
and if you want to do it with v-show, I will basically copy the two paragraphs to show both,
I can simply say v-show but as I mentioned in the exercise video, v-else does not work for isShown
which is why we don't see or me now a second time. Instead
here, we will have to fall back to the other solution of simply reversing the condition and saying ok only
show this if isShown as false.
Now you can see toggling works for both
but of course if we inspect this, you see or if we shrink this down a bit, you see that here, we still
see the you either see me paragraph but the display is set to none whereas directly below the button, where
we would theoretically have such a paragraph,
we don't see it because this first paragraph uses v-if and therefore is completely removed from the
dom.
That is the key difference to takeaway here as was also explained in the lectures throughout this module.
In exercise number two, we want to loop through any array of our choice,
so I will create a new array and name it array here in the data property and I will simply store some
names here, so I'll store my name because I like it,
so you should like your name, I guess and some other names which are totally up to you. Then here
in this unordered list,
we want to output them all
and of course the best way, the stupidest way to be honest would be to simply
well write Max
and then a new list,
we don't want to hardcode it of course, we want to use v-for here to loop through this array,
then the syntax as you learned it is element, this name is totally up to you, choose whatever name you like,
in array with array referring to this array property of our vue instance and we can then output element
here.
Now we not only shall print the element which would work if you hit control enter but also the index,
to do this,
I enclose the element in parentheses and add a second kind of argument here which I'll call index, again
also this name is up to you, only the order here matters,
first one is the element, second one is the index
and I can then output, let's say separated by a dash index here as well
and after hitting control enter, we see the index next to the name,
so this was exercise number two. In exercise number three,
we want to loop through this object and print all the key value pairs here,
we also want to print the index.
Well first let's create the object, I'll name it
my object here, it obviously is an object and I can simply copy and paste this,
so let's do it like this
and now split this up over multiple lines to make it a bit easier to read, I guess.
So this is the object through which I want to loop,
I can also use v-for for this,
so let's set it up on this list item
but now I can output the value of each key by saying value in my object,
vuejs automatically detects that this is an object and I could output value.
If I hit control enter
now, we see this list down there but we are not only interested in the value, we also want to get the
key name and the index.
So time to enclose the value in parentheses and then here, we would have value still as the first argument,
the key name as the second one, again all these names are totally up to you, only the order matters
and then the index,
I'll name it
I here to mix things up as the third argument. I can then output value,
key name and the index in the end here, like this.
If I now hit control enter, we see Lord of the Rings which has is the title has the index of 0, the name which
is the author, has an index of 1 and so on.
This is how we can loop through an object, again vuejs is automatically detecting whether it's an array or
object which influences which values or which data we can extract from it, all the elements in the index
in the case of an array and value, key name and index in the case of an object and then how we can use
this information to output it like we do here.
Time for the last exercise,
printing this object here and then also printing this data array in this object. That will be a bit more
complex since we get this nested array but not every field in this object is a nested array so we can't
blindly loop through all the properties of this object
but let's create the object first. I'll name it test data, like that and also split that up over multiple
lines
and now we want to create a loop.
Well first I can create my list item here with v-for and I can output the values of this object, so value
in test data
and that would then be like that, if I hit control enter, we see test object and this array being printed
as a string here.
That's nice but I want to loop through that array,
so I will actually split this up over multiple lines because here, I want to conditionally output the
values
if there is a need for it, I'll add some divs here and on these divs, I want to loop through the elements
in value.
Value now of course refers to the individual value of each key value pair in my object,
so this is this reference
and this can be an array, like in the case of data but it could also not be one in the case of name.
Turns out the name is a string which actually can be treated as an array as it is a chain of characters
but to make it really clear that this will not always work,
I'll also add an ID which is a number which clearly is not an array, no matter how you look at it
but I also don't want to treat name as an array,
how do we do that?
We kind of need to conditionally output this div, here
I will do it with template tags and I will say that inside these template tags, I want to output this
loop and I can check this with the array object and the isArray helper method where I pass value as an argument.
This checks if value is an array and only if it is, I will reach this for loop.
I'll add another template below where I add v-else,
this has to be the same element type as a side note,
so if you use template up here, this also has to be a template
and here I want to output the value like that. With that, if I then also print my element here in this
div
and now hit control enter, we see that this now works, we check if it is an array and only if it is an
array
do we print the values in this inner for loop,
otherwise we simply output it here with v-else block with this value string interpolation here.
So this is how we mix v-if and v-for to conditionally show
or attach this v-for loop or
these elements created with the v-for loop so that this v-for a loop also only gets executed if it can
be executed,
if we actually do have an array, like we do here for this value when it is this data property here of
our object. That concludes the conditionals and list module,
I hope you feel confident using v-if and v-for, in the end it's really straightforward syntax.
You also see a more complicated use case here with nested loops and conditional checking, the easier set
ups
as seen above
here are probably the more common ones but it's good to know them all and feel confident using them
which I sure hope you do right now.
Let's continue with the next videos.